expectation. So we were already discussing expectation so this session here is just for make sure that you are understanding and it's about the sum of random variables okay so if you have an X random variable and a Y random variable you can add them okay and if you need to compute the expectation or the expected value of this sum it is going to be just the sum of the expected values okay and that's mainly because of the linearity property that expectation has okay so basically if you had summation of say a Poisson and I don't know an hypergeometric and then you need to compute the run of the expectation of the two you just compute them individually and you just add them okay so for instance let's say that you are rolling two fair dice right X and then Y we saw that the expected value of a fair die is 3.5 so no matter which one of these two dice you are throwing when you need to compute the expected value each will have 3.5 as the expected value so what is the expected value of the summation of the results of the two dice it's just 3.5 plus 3.5 okay you just add expectations of two or three or four random variables and now it's your turn find the expected value of the sum obtained when fair dice are rolled when N fair dice are rolled I need to stop copy and pasting I'm always missing the letters so find the expected value of the sum obtained when N fair dice are rolled so what is it do you need to think to answer this one Oh 3.5 n everybody saw it 3.5 n right and that's why we can consider each of this n die as its own random variable right I'm checking if I have everything here yes so one thing that I want to for you in this course is like when you are writing formality organization right so we have n dice okay so let's say that X I is the result of die is die right die number I I equals one two up to six so we know that probability of X I being equals I is one over six for all I okay so what we are doing here now is that we have oh here is up to n okay up to n yeah forget this so we have X I so it's so X I is the result of die number I and we have one two three up to n I so what we want to compute is X and X is the summation of all is n right so now what we want to do is to compute the expected value of X right so because expectation it's linear you can remove the summation outside of the expectation so every operation that you have that is linear you can put summation outside it right so one thing that we know is that this is equals to what so the expected value of X I is equal to what 3.5 yes this is equal 3.5 because this is the expected value of die I so it means that our summation so you are adding 3.5 anytimes right so if you are adding 3.5 anytimes it means that you have n times 3.5 okay so try to be formal like this when you're writing okay so that's what we expect someone doing this course okay so one thing that I would like to point is that the product the expected value of the product of two random variables is not the product of the two expected values okay so what I'm telling is like expected value of X times Y is not necessarily the product of the expected values so this is going to be the truth only when you have independence of random variables okay and this we are going to see in chapter 6 so just for you to have an intuition of what I'm talking about here so let's say that these two random variables X and Y they tend to be large together okay so if they tend to be large together so it means that their expected value as a whole right when you make the product is going to be greater than when you do the expected value of them separately right so individually they kind of they're not following the pattern when you multiply them so if one variable tends to be large when the other is small so then their joint right when you multiply them and you take the expected value it is going to be smaller than if you multiply their expected values individually okay so products does not hold the equality only when the variables are independent okay questions yeah good now it's your turn so you have three highways in each you have a different number of accidents we model the number of accidents in each of this highway with a Poisson distribution but because those are three different highways they have different rates of accidents so you expect that you have different lambdas for each of these highways I have that the parameters of each of this Poisson is 0.3 0.5 and 0.7 and what I want is the expected number of accidents that will happen on any of these highways today you
 Diolch am wylio'r ffilm. Diolch am wylio'r ffilm. Diolch am wylio'r ffilm. Diolch am wylio'r ffilm. So, what's this number? 1.5 on Zoom? Oh, 1.5. Everybody, 1.5? Yeah, so we have that X1 is the number of accidents in Highway 1. X2 is the same for Highway 2. And X3 is the same for Highway 3. And we all know that X1 is Poisson with lambda 1, 0.3. So that's the parameter of this Poisson, right? And what is the expected value of X1? 0.3, right? Because in the Poisson, the expected value is the parameter, right? It's the lambda. So, X2 is also a Poisson, and here the parameter is 0.5. So, it means that the expected number of accidents in this highway is 0.5. So, if it's like hour, it's a lot. If it is like days, it's not that much. You expect half an accident a day, right? That's what this number is telling us, right? So, but, yeah, if it's like, say, hour or period of the day, morning, so you kind of expect like half an accident every period, right? So, and in Highway 3, we had that also a Poisson models the number of accidents in that highway, okay? So, now what we want is like in a day, right? It was in a day, right? The number of daily accidents. Okay, daily accidents. So, you expect to see in Highway 2, 0.5 accidents a day. In Highway 1, 0.3 accidents a day. And Highway 3, you expect to see 0.7. So, when you join all these number of accidents in Highway 1, in Highway 2, in Highway 3, what you do, you just add all these numbers and it's going to give us 1.5. So, it means that daily you expect to see in these three highways, 1.5 accidents. Is this a lot? For one day? You don't think or you think? But let's say that three highways that we use here, right? And then so in one year, you expect to see almost 700 accidents, right? Accidents can be like a fender bender or like a pileup. Yeah, but we don't have it, but even though it's a lot, they all cost money, right? They all cost the most important, time. Because all these small accidents, they complicated the traffic, right? And time is money. We are in America. This is America, right? Okay, so let's move on. Oh, I have another one for you to think about it. But unfortunately, I started putting the... Let me delete this. You are not seeing this. Okay. So think about this one. Yeah, that's the result of doing my slides in the day of the class. And when your wife call you in the middle of your work. Okay, where is it? Yeah. So there are key types of coupons, okay? Independently of the types of previously collected coupons, each new coupon collected is of type I with probability Pi. If you add all these probabilities, they add up to one, okay? If n coupons are collected, find the expected number of distinct types that appear in this set. That is, find the expected number of types of coupons that appear at least once in the set of coupons. This is tricky. You can team up, you can discuss, you can ask questions. You can complain. You can say that it makes no sense. You can sleep. That's why I'm calling it Pi. Pi, Pi, Pi. Yeah, this is the type of, oh, you can do it without writing, but it's going to, you need to think a lot. This is the type of question that it's better write down, like the variables. More than 80% of this is letters. Here is 100% letters. When I was in high school, I was good in math. Then a teacher, oh, you should do mathematics, but don't do, because in Brazil we have bachelor and we have licentiature. I don't know how to translate that. If you do bachelor, you are doomed to go to industry or academics. If you do licentiature, you are doomed to be like a teacher, high school teacher, right? He convinced me to go to college to do mathematics, right? I don't know if I like him or if I hate him nowadays, but yeah. So, when I entered mathematics, I discovered that I was not good in mathematics in the level of.
 doing pure mathematics, because I was good in mathematics in the level of doing engineering. I was doing computing things, right? And then when I entered the bachelor in mathematics with all letters, right? No numbers at all. Yeah. But I survived. Yeah. I'm here now. Yeah. But yeah, probably engineering would be much, much, much profitable. Yeah. You go over it. Yeah. I think you give us too much time to like do the questions and we, I don't know. I don't feel like. Well, you should be trying and thinking at least. But did you realize? You drew pictures. You know, these types of questions, if you don't know where to start, you don't make any progress. That's why you need to try to start by yourself. Otherwise, you're just going to learn them by trying after seeing solutions and then you're never going to learn by yourself how to do them. For this one, no, you can just keep doing it intuitively, but you need to think about random variables, how you organize them. That's one thing that is generational in terms of study, right? Because in my time, we didn't have access to information outside of textbooks that you had in books. So when I was doing mathematics, YouTube was not a thing. YouTube. Okay. So we didn't have access to solutions. It was really hard to get solutions of exercises. So we spend a lot of time just trying and trying and trying and trying and trying. So it was like exhaustive. So it's not like good though. It's not like efficient. It is because you learn so many ways of knowing how you want solve that. It's like Thomas Edson doing like the lamp, right? He tried, oh, 1000 times. So he learned every time one way that he was not going to learn to do like the lamp, right? So that's what is required in mathematics is that you practice. Like I spent six months thinking in one single exercise. Six months was an algebra exercise about league groups and things like that. Six months, every day, every day, at least two hours. It was my ritual before going to bed, getting like a hot tea, sitting, putting Oliver Shanti and friends in my CD thing that played music because didn't have any other thing and trying that damn fucking exercise. But in the end, I was able to do it after six months. Yeah. And I was so kind of, oh, I made it. Yeah. But yeah, that's kind of what's required in mathematics. But now it's like we have everything at the tips of your fingers, right? So we get used to get everything ready, done. That's why we are so anxious. Okay. So let's do it. This is the type of exercise that we need to write things down. So we have E types of coupons, right? And what we are doing. So independently of the types of previously collected coupons, because so far we had a different types, but it might be that a new one appear, right? We don't know. So you're going to have key plus one. So your answer needs to be a function of key. Key must appear in your answer. Okay. So if N coupons are collected, find the expected numbers of distinct types that appear in this set. Okay. So let's start writing things. So let's write our random variable. Wait, so you're saying you can have a coupon of type k plus one? Well, independently of the types of previously collected coupons. Yeah, but you can only have coupons of type one and k, right? In this case, one to k. Yeah. Yeah. Because the probability of all of those adds up to one. Adds up to one. Because if a new coupon appear, then your summation needs to be updated. So all probabilities needs to be adjusted, but we are not considering this here. That's the point. Okay. So far, you only know k and the probabilities of all of them when you add them should be one. So let's define an indicator random variable. Okay. That state the type of coupon. So it's going to be X I, and it's going to be one. If type I appears at least once. Appears where? Appears in the N that we are selecting. And this is going to be zero. Otherwise. Okay. So this is an indicator random variable, right? So what is the expected value of this random variable? P. P? P I, right? Okay. This, right? Because when you have an indicator random variable, it's true or false. So the expected value is the probability of one. So in this case is P I. Okay. So now let's express the total number of distinct types. Okay. So the total number of distinct types is going to be S. The summations, right? Up to K, right? So our goal is to find the expected value of S. That's what we want to do. And yeah. Because, let me see here. Independently of the types of previously collected coupons, each new coupon collected is of type I with probability P I. Yeah. So it's not the same thing. Okay. Yeah. This is, yeah. That's, yeah. We stop here. No, no, actually it's, no, that's, no, that's P I. That's P I. So what's your question? So what's the difference between P I and X I? Ah, okay. Okay. X I is the random variable. It's what you're counting. Okay. I'm drawing coupons, right? Every time that I do a drawing, I have two possibilities. Can I put the one or zero? Yes. Okay. In this drawing, the probability that I get coupon I is P I. So X I is either one or zero. And P I is the probability that I got I in that drawing. Okay. Yeah. So is it clear that that's what we are, we want? Because we are drawing and just, and this is the total number of distinct types. Okay. And X I is one if types I appears at least once. So we need to compute the expected value of S. So, and then we know by the linearity that what we need to compute
 It's just this, right? And it means that what we need to compute, oops, this is up to K, it's not, yeah. But look, computing the probability of Xi is equal one, it's hard, right? Because it's the chance that a coupon appear at least once. So what is the complement of Xi? Yeah, but in terms of language, words like English. So Xi, if type i appears at least once, so the complement of Xi, right, yes, so it is, so let's say that I want a probability of Xi equals one, it is equal one minus probability that type i never appear in any, I think it's here, in any trials. So and then this is easy to compute, this one is much easier to compute. So this is kind of intuitive, right? So each coupon has a probability of Pi of appearing in any trials, right? So what does it mean not appearing in any trials? Nope. So each one has a probability of appearing Pi. One minus Pi, good start, but in any trials to the power of n, right? Because we have any trials, okay? So in each trial, there is a probability Pi that the coupon will appear and one minus Pi that the coupon won't appear. Since we have any trials, you put it to the power, right? Yeah, so it means that that expected value that we want to compute, it's summation of one, oops, because we had summation from i, k, P of Xi equals one. So this is equal to summation one minus Pi to the n, right? So do we have, so it's linear, right? So what you can do, you can separate this. So this number, what is this? One. Nope. Or is the, I don't know. One though that is k, right? Why is it k? You keep adding one k times. So this is a for loop. Now you understand, right? Yeah, this is a for loop. For i equals one, add i up to k, okay? So this is k minus this summation. And that's our answer. So do we have questions on Zoom? So takeaways here. You need to understand what you're doing. You need to know how to write your random variables. If you do not write your random variables correctly, you cannot do this type of exercises. So here we are drawing coupons. So each draw was a Bernoulli trial. Xi was either one or zero. One with probability Pi. Then what we wanted is like, how many of these coupons can appear at least once, right? So we figure out that we want a summation. And you know, if each of these Xi is a Bernoulli random trial, you kind of know what type of random variable is this, right? Which one is this? Huh? No. So I'm adding k Bernoulli random trials. So yeah, so it's k Bernoulli trials. So what's the name of this distribution? I have a fixed, I have a cap. So I have a fixed number of trials. Oh, a hypergeometric? Nope. Binomial. Binomial, right? So if I have a fixed number of trials, right? I have a binomial distribution. So this S in the end is a binomial distribution. Geometric is the first one, right? Bernoulli. What is geometric? Geometric is in your, geometric is a while. While performing this experiment, yeah, while performing this experiment, I want the probability of having the first success in the trial number 15. That's what geometric is. Bernoulli is first one? Bernoulli is the first one. Bernoulli is the Boolean, right? It's like, it's a one or zero. And then this is binomial because it's. It's a fixed number of trials. Geometric, you don't have a fixed number of trials because you are waiting. Geometric is a waiting time. Okay? So is the indicator a type of Bernoulli random variable? Yeah. Indicator is a Bernoulli random variable. Perfect. Where the success is the one, probability of one, right? Okay. I'm going to give you a lot of exercises to practice. It's going to be today. Okay. A list of probably 30. So you won't have excuses. Okay. So CDF. Who remembers what CDF stands for? Yeah. My students, they don't keep reading the class notes. What CDF stands for? You don't know? Cumulative Distribution Function. Cumulative Distribution Function. CDF. Cumulative Distribution Functions. We are accumulating probabilities, right? That's what. The staircase one? Yes. That's the staircase one. Step function. Yeah. So, and here, I just want to point the properties of a cumulative distribution function. So it's going to be clear for you. One thing. So, and that's how we, we kind of write it, right? So the CDF is always a big F. Sometimes when you are working with many random variables, X, Y, Zs, it's nice to put an index to indicate which one that F refers to. But if you are just working with X, you can just write F of X. Okay. And what's this? This is the probability that your big X, your random variable, so big X is the random variable, is going to be smaller than a specific X. So when we use, when we use lower letters, it means that it is an observed value of X.
 the random variable X. So random variables are always big letters and small letters are the observed values. Okay, so a CDF is always non-decreasing, meaning that if A is smaller or equals B, the total accumulated probability until A should be smaller than the total accumulated probability until B. Okay, so I kind of tried to explain what these properties mean. In this case, probability is accumulated as we move from left to right on the X-axis. This helps ensure that the CDF reflects the intuitive idea that probabilities cannot decrease as the outcome space expands. Okay, so you are getting more and more and more possible results of that random experiment and you are stacking the probabilities. So this should accumulate until you reach which value? 1. Now, right continues. So the CDF is right continuous. So small jumps in the probability occurs only at discrete values. In practice, you notice that the CDF will not skip values. No, no, no. This continues, it means that it has derivatives in all points. So this is continuous because if I take limit going to this side and limit going to this side, this is a well-defined value. So that means by being continuous, right? It's a bad thing. Yeah, because this one is continuous. Yeah, because here it means like despite having a jump here, this is well-defined and this is not well-defined, but as you go from here to here, the limit will be this. So in terms of the limit, there is no discontinuity. Okay? I think you're talking about continuous. It's only right continuous, it's only from the right side. Not like from the left side. Yeah, like, okay, I see your point. It's because yeah, like, I don't like this thing that you put lines continuous. No, no, no. Because it does not work for this case because this is right continuous and you have like, this is a continuous function. Okay? By right continuous, what I mean like even if this was like here was this and here you didn't have this, this would be continuous. Okay? Because what means that the definition that it's in all points, you have a limit. So you can take derivative. Not left continuous because to be left continuous, it would be like this. So I would have like all these guys here like this and here I wouldn't have anything. Right? This is left continuous. Right continuous is the other way around. It's like when you compute the limit, when you compute the limit, so let's get here 3. Right? So you have x, you have x equals 3. Okay? So it means that when I get limit of fx, here is big fx. Okay? Of x going to 3 from positive sides, this is equal the value that the function assumes at 3. But limit of x going to negative side, okay? It's not, it's going to be equal, right? But here is like a convergence. It never is reached. From this side, it reaches. Right? Because it will be exactly the value of the function at that point. But here, it's not. Right? So here is like a convergence. It will never be that case. Only in the limit. Okay? I don't know if I answered your question. So the left and right means where you're approaching from? Yeah, so right I'm approaching from positive sides. Okay? And... No, I'm approaching from positive sides. It means that I'm going from bigger numbers. So I'm coming from the positive side of the x axis. So this is the real line. Right? So this is the real line. I'm approaching from positive sides. So this is, if all limits at these points are equal to the value of the function, then it is right continuous. Left continuous, I'm approaching from the negative side of the real numbers. There is nothing on the graph here. So do you see? It will never be, in limit, it's going to be this. But the function will never be this. Okay? That's what it means. So, in your case, the thing that you need to notice is like when you're drawing your plots, make sure that this small dot is in the correct side. Okay? If you draw this function and you have like the dots this side, yeah, it's wrong. So this is a cumulative distribution function, right? So if I'm going to the infinite side of the real numbers, I expect this limit to be zero. Why? Because I'm not expecting to have any values of the random variable. So there's not supposed to be, to have probabilities. So when you compute the limit of X going to the negative side, it's going to be a zero. But if I'm going to the infinite, the positive infinite, it means that I'm adding all the values of the random variable until I added all of them. So this should be one. Okay? You're just accumulating all possible outcomes and the negative infinity is not possible because you can't accumulate negative X value outcomes. No. No, no, no, no. You can have a random variable that has negative values. The random variable. The random variable. Let's say that I'm checking the stock market. If the stock market opened today, the same value as yesterday, it's a zero. If it increased, it's a one. If decreased, it's a minus one. So my random variable in this case would have X equals zero equals minus one equals one. So my random variable can be negative. So in my plot of the... And let's say that the stock market can open in the inverse side with probability let's say 0.7. It will remain the same with probability 0.1 and it will increase with probability 0.2. Right? So I have zero, I have one, and I have minus one. So the PMF, right? The PMF would be 0.7. Right? So the Y-axis would be here. So this would be 0.7. This would be 0.1 and this would be 0.2. So this is the PMF, right? So it's small f or probability of X. And here is X. Now the cumulative, what you are doing is before minus one, it is zero. From minus one up to zero, it is 0.7. Right?
 So, it is this. From 0 to 1, it is, so here is 0.7, here is 0.8, and then, from here, what I did wrong here? I did wrong. What I did wrong? The dot, right? I put the dot wrong. The dot is here. So, do you see? I'm accumulating probabilities. Before minus 1, there is a possibility in this random variable. I didn't have possible outcomes. I didn't have a value of this random variable, but minus 1 was a possibility. What minus 1 indicates? That the market wakes up, reducing, like, a smaller value than yesterday. But then, it could stay the same, so I added plus 0.1, and then it can increase. So, those are my three possible values, okay? Yeah? So, there's like two graphs, right? So, the bottom one, you said that's the PMF? PMF. PMF is the individual values of probabilities. So, here is the probability of x being equal minus 1. So, this is 70%. It means that today, the market can open with a decreased value compared to yesterday. So, that's 0.7. So, those are the individual values. This is the probability of the market remains the same from yesterday. So, this has probability 0.1. And in this other graph here, this is the CDF. I'm stacking all these values, right? I'm stacking all these values. So, before minus 1, I have 0. When I reach minus 1, I have 0.7. Then, I am stacking the value of probability of minus 1, 0.7, with the value of probability of 0, 1. So, this is 0.8. What's the probability between negative 1? Why did you add them? Sorry. I'm adding all possibilities. What are the possibilities of this random variable? Today, I'm shorter than yesterday. I'm equal yesterday. I am greater than yesterday, okay? And I'm accumulating the probabilities. I'm accumulating the probabilities because this function has some nice properties that I prefer to work with when compared to this one. Yeah, this is kind of, yeah. But basically, we're just adding the probabilities of all possible of all possible outcomes. And we are adding it in an organized way, okay? It doesn't mean that I'm going to have a value between minus 1 and 0, okay? Why is this? Because this is a discrete random variable. It only assumes a finite or countable possibilities. But if we were talking about temperatures, okay? Let's say that we were talking about the temperatures of the human body. And let's say that here I had, let's say, I don't know. Do you have negative temperatures in Fahrenheit, right? Okay. So, you had, I don't know, minus 1 and 0 temperature. Let's say in this case, you have minus 1, 0. So, you could have a value between here and here, right? So, what I'm telling you is like, oh, going from a temperature of minus 1 to 0, it's 0.7. It's like any value in between here is 0.7. Sometimes, and you're going to see this, instead of having this, you would have things like this. So, since we are talking about temperatures. So, oh, before minus 1 degree, you cannot have any value. So, this is 0. But then, between minus 1 and 0, your temperature increases like this. When it reaches 0, your temperature increases like this. And then, when it reaches 1, okay, it's kind of jump. Okay? So, you can have something like that. So, here, what this function is doing, it's increasing the probability of this temperature. Okay? So, you're stacking the probability. So, you're going to have a continuous function as CDF. Okay? Good. So, why the CDF is important is, you're going to see it when we work with continuous random variable, is because it's a way of computing probabilities in intervals. So, you have an interval from A to B. So, you have an interval here. Open at A and close at B. Okay? Let me see on Zoom here. I don't have anything. So, from A to B, right? And I want to compute the probability of this interval. So, this is just doing the CDF at the highest value, B, minus the CDF in the minimum value, A. And this is going to be important when we work with continuous random variable. Okay? Because when you're working with continuous random variable, there is no probability of a given point. Okay? Why? Because the real line is infinite. So, between any two numbers, there is infinite numbers. Right? So, it's impossible to compute a probability of a single value. Okay? So, that's why this is going to be important. Good. So, here I have an exercise for you, too. This one, you can do it. This one is easy. Right? This one is with numbers. So, people on Zoom, if you have questions. I have a question. Yep. Can you go back to the two graphs that you drew? Yes. Why is it that not both of them are, like, centered at zero for the probability axis? Can you repeat? For the second one, I noticed that the probability axis isn't, like, centered at zero. Is that? Ah, it's just for convenience. Oh, it's just for convenience? Okay. Just for convenience. Yeah. So, and this is a common practice when you are drawing a PMF. Okay? So, when you're drawing a PMF of a random variable that has negative values, in general, we kind of shift the y-axis to the most left of the plot. So, in this way, we can have a we can have a nice plot, not kind of with, like, the axis in the middle, messing up with things, especially because sometimes you want to draw the probability of things being zero, and then the x kind of hide it. So, what we do, we remove the x. So, let's say that here So, let's say that here you have minus three, minus two, minus one, zero, one, two, three. You kind of just put it in any place. Okay? So, it's just for aesthetics purpose. Okay? So, attendance is not supposed to affect your grades. Okay? I changed this configuration on Canvas. If it is affecting your grades, pay attention and let me know. Okay? That's not supposed to. So, Esteban is here. Destiny is here. Alexis is on Zoom. Right? Yeah. Angelina is on Zoom. Angelina, I'm going to send your document today. It's in my to-do list. Logan, is Logan online?
 Logan, are you there? Nope. Cameron. Cameron. Cameron. Nope. Michael. Michael is not online. Mark's also not present. Marie is here. Let's go is here. Theresa is not here today. Janda. Janda is not here. Gene is here. Alex is here. Paolo. Nope. Gigi is here. Ashley is here. Knock is here. Roman is here. Netanyahu is here. Thomas is here. Ivan is here. Melissa is here. Alberto is here. Nestor is not here. Aaron is here. Sam is here. Natalie is here. Alicia. Nope. Juan is here, right? I think I saw him. Juan? Yeah, Juan is here. John and Mantine. Okay. Everybody computed at least the first two? Okay. So, probability of X equals three is smaller than three is this, right? Let's do it. Probability of X is smaller or three. It is. So, I have 11, 12. Everybody agrees. Yep. Because what we want is X is smaller than three. Meaning that this point cannot enter, right? So, it means that we are not in this step. We are in this step, right? And in this step, there is nothing here, okay? And it's here. So, 11, 12. What about probability of X is smaller or equal three? And it's one, right? Why? Because three counts and then it is here, right? Okay, good. So, what is probability of X equal one? What did you get? Two thirds. So, X equals one. So, it's kind of here. But you need to discount here, right? So, the probability of a single point is the jump. Remember? I mentioned this before when I was kind of presenting the CDF. So, the probability of equal, it's the jump, right? So, it's two thirds minus a half. So, this is one over six, okay? Now, what is the probability that X is greater than a half? This is probability of one minus X is smaller or equal a half. So, what is the probability that X is smaller than a half? Oh, I think we still have a little bit of probability, right? So, look, this is a function, right? I'm telling you that if X is between zero and one, I want X over two. So, this is one minus F of one over two. But F between zero and one is X over two. So, this is one minus one over two over two. I need to replace X here, right? So, then it's going to give me three over four, right? And what is the probability that X is between four and two? Because this is an interval, what you should do is F over four minus F of two. It's always the upper end part of the interval minus the lower end part. So, F of four, it's one, right? Because it's already here. So, this is one minus and F of two, F of two is where? It's here, right? Because it's F of two, so two enters. So, this is eleven, twelve already, okay? It's not less than two? No, it's because... No, but it's the rule, the rule is as following. If you have probability of A smaller than X, this is F of B minus F of A, okay? Then, F of A is four, so it's one. And F of two, F of two, it's here. Here is open, right? So, you need to pay attention to this. Here is open, here is closed. So, F of two is the one closed here. So, it is eleven over twelve. So, this is one over twelve, okay? And here, I kind of wrote it a little bit more formally what is going on, right? So, but it's basically everything that I did. The only thing that I wrote different, it was this one. So, kind of for you to understand what is kind of going on. So, we have X is smaller than three. So, if X is smaller than three, it means that X is smaller of equal three minus offset, a small value, okay? And how did I control this small value, right? I kind of put three minus one over N. So, when I get this N going to infinite, I make this very, very, very small. And then I'm very, very, very close to the left of three, right? So, and basically, that's F over three minus a very small positive number. So, it's just for telling you, oh, how can I formally write this, right? That I'm not in that point. So, that I'm just a little bit behind, right? It's just that. Actually, it was the book that wrote like that. And then I feel, okay, I'm going to keep it. Okay, so, based on this, look into this. This is the CDF. Can you recover for me the PMF? So, look to this, okay? So, look to this and try to recover for me the PMF. Okay? So, that's the last question of this class today. So, consider the CDF of the random variable X in the previous.
 your turn to write the PMF of X. What is PMF stands for? Probabilistic Mass Function. So I have messages here What time is our office hours? Remember, the PMF shows us the individual values. The PMF shows us the individual values. The PMF shows us the individual values. The PMF shows us the PMF of X. The PMF shows us the PMF of Y. The PMF shows us the PMF of Z. The PMF shows us the PMF of Z. The PMF shows us the PMF of Z. The PMF shows us the PMF of Y. The PMF shows us the PMF of Z. The PMF shows us the PMF of Z. The PMF shows us the PMF of Z. The PMF shows us the PMF of Y. The PMF shows us the PMF of Z. The PMF shows us the PMF of Z. The PMF shows us the PMF of Y. The PMF shows us the PMF of Z. The PMF shows us the PMF of Y. The PMF shows us the PMF of Z. The PMF shows us the PMF of Z. Is there a typo on the answer slide? Is there a typo on the answer slide? Is there a typo on the answer slide? Yeah, probably. Yeah, so let's do the easy part first. So, first, you need to look here. And you need to look the values that this function can take. So, this function can take X equals 1. So, this function can be 1. This function can be 2. And this function can be 3. So, those are the places where we have jumps, right? But, this function, from 1 to infinity, those are the only values that this variable assumes. Those are the discrete values that this function assumes. However, when you look here, it is a function, an inclined function. It means that from 0 to 1, this function can be anything between here. So, it means that it is kind of a continuous function with a discrete part. So, that's what we call a mixed random variable. Okay? So, let's understand something. Okay, why did we not include after 3? Because after 3, everything already happens and it's all 1, right? So, there is no new outcome. There is no possibility that X is greater than 3. Everything happens when it reaches 3. So, 3 is the last value that this function can take, that this random variable can take. So, every time that you have a random variable, and let's say, and you are drawing the CDF, and then you have, I don't know, something like that. And here is like, let's say, 32. And let's say, here it was kind of 1, right? So, imagine that this is kind of very flat here. Oh my God. Imagine that this is a line. Yeah. So, and then you have something like this. Right? So, and now this point is here. Yeah. So, everything that could have happened with this random variable happens before here. When it reaches 32, the CDF, right? Here is the CDF. The CDF reaches 1, then there is no more outcomes. All other values, they have probability 0. Everything already happens. Oh, I kind of see. Got it? Because it's a partition at the end of the day, right? Of the total probability. Yes. One and nothing else can... Yeah. So, all the possible outcomes, they were before you reach 1. Okay? So, before you can still have multiple outcomes. Yes. But after you reach 1, there is no more possible outcomes. Okay? So, then to compute the PMF, we can focus on this part. Right? So, in this part, we can compute probability of X.
 3 e o John está certo, certo? Isto é como este pulo, certo? Então, este pulo é 1 menos 11 sobre 12. Então, isto é 1 menos 11 sobre 12. Isto é 1 sobre 12. Então, a probabilidade de x igual a 2, isto é também fácil de computar. É este pulo aqui. Então, isto é 11 sobre 12 menos 2 sobre 3. E, se você fizer a computação, isto é 1 sobre 4. Isto é 1 sobre 4, certo? Sim. Oh meu Deus, tantos. 1 sobre 4. Sim, o outro vai ser 1 sobre 6 que já computamos. Então, a outra que é fácil de computar é a probabilidade de x igual a 1. Então, é este outro pulo aqui. Então, isto é 2 sobre 3 menos 1 sobre 2. Então, isto é 1 sobre 6. Então, basicamente, você construiu o PMF do CDF. Exatamente. E você só usou os 3 valores que o CDF diz que tem. Sim, sim. Então, agora, eu ainda tenho um problema. Se eu adicionar todos os valores de uma variável aleatória, ela deveria adicionar 2, a probabilidade, ela deveria adicionar 2. 1, certo? Mas se eu adicionar isto, mais isto, isto é igual a 1 sobre 2. Eu ainda estou perdendo metade, 50% das probabilidades. E onde está esta metade? 0. Esta metade está entre 0 e 1. E você vai aprender no futuro que isto é exatamente a derivativa disto. Então, a derivativa de x sobre 2 é 1 sobre 2. Certo? Então, do CDF, eu construí o meu PMF. Certo? Então, deixe-me apenas fixar o ponto que o John... Deixe-me apenas... Então, nós computamos isto fácil, fácil, fácil. Isto é um pouco complicado, nós tínhamos que pensar mais atentamente, certo? E tudo disto vai ser 0. Então, esta variável aleatória assume valor continuamente entre 0 e 1, exatamente em 1, exatamente em 2 e exatamente em 3. É isso. Perguntas. Dúvidas. Todas elas, mais um pouco mais. No Zones. Sem perguntas. Ah, é porque foi x sobre 2, certo? Então, é x sobre 2. Então, você vai ver que... Isto é o que você vai aprender mais tarde, que se você tiver um... Se você tiver um CDF, você vai aprender que a probabilidade... A probabilidade de x, o PMF, certo? É a derivativa em x... De fx. Então, este é o próximo capítulo. Você deveria ter começado com isso, isso faria as coisas muito mais fáceis agora. Bem, estou seguindo o livro. Sério que isso faria as coisas mais fáceis? Quero dizer, mas... Como você calcularia a derivativa de... Porque as outras não são apenas derivadas de 0? Sim, porque isso é verdade se você tiver uma distribuição contínua, certo? Ah, ok. Ok, é isso por hoje. Como você reconheceu que 0 a 1 era até mesmo um segundo continuo? Ah, porque quando eu olho aqui, não é um passo, certo? É uma função inclinada. Então, isso significa que... Então, isso é uma constante, certo? Então, esta parte aqui... Você vê, estou mudando os valores aqui, e nada está acontecendo aqui. Então, isso significa que isso é discreto. Mas aqui, estou mudando o valor aqui, e os valores aqui, estou mudando de acordo com esta inclinação aqui. Então, em qualquer lugar que você tiver uma função visual, é em algum lugar que você precisa mapear com o PMF, certo? Sim, e é uma coisa contínua. Bem, se você quiser fazer quant, o financeiro, é como... Não, eu gosto, mas... É a fundação. É tão ruim. Então, office hours hoje... Hã? Duas semanas? Sim. Eu acho que são duas semanas. Eu acho que você deveria... Então... rápido, em termos de... Eu acho que você esperou muito tempo para a gente trabalhar. Ah, é porque eu já fiz a separação das minhas aulas. Eu já fiz a sílaba, e... Você já separou tudo? Sim, eu não vou mudar o horário. Sim, mas eu acho que você pode passar mais tempo na intuição e... Sim, eu posso te dar mais exercícios durante a aula. Fazemos juntos. Você deveria passar por mais exercícios. Deixa-me ver quantas sessões temos até o exame. Ok, tchau. Tchau, tchau. Tchau, tchau. Oh, meu Deus. O exame vai cair. E eu estou indo devagar, porque eu não quero que as coisas se acumulem no exame também. Fazendo o exame mais fácil? Sim. Podemos fazer mais perguntas sobre os mesmos temas? Mas eu preciso que você pense, vocês não pensam na aula. Eu estou tentando, cara. Eu estou tentando, eles estão me assustando. Tem, tipo, 15 definições diferentes para lembrar. Eu não sei qual se aplica aqui. Em que ordem eles se aplicam? Sim, então nós temos mais três aulas. Então, um, dois, três, quatro, cinco, seis, sete. Exame. Sim, sessões de sexo. E aí você tem uma revisão. Ok. E aí o meio termo. A revisão vai ficar muito segura. Sim. Deixa-me ver no Zoom o que eu tenho. Pessoas. Ok, eu tenho perguntas aqui. Vamos fazer um dia de guia de estudo? Ok, eu vejo você. Vamos fazer um dia de guia de estudo? Sim, nós vamos ter. Sim, eu vou dar mais exames de MOC. E hoje eu vou te dar, tipo, os exercícios precisos que eu quero que você faça para o capítulo 4. Esses exercícios vão te guiar através do exame. Ok? Esses vão ser, tipo, o exercício para você saber o que eu preciso que você saiba. Para você saber o que eu preciso que você saiba. Ok? Então é isso. É isso por hoje. Você é... Eu vou desistir. Eu vou estar em minhas horas de trabalho no Zoom. Ok? Tchau, tchau. Até mais.
